The asteroid Vesta, as photographed by the orbiting Dawn spacecraft on July 17. Nasa now aims to place astronauts on an asteroid within 15 years
But sending people to one won't be easy. You can't land on an asteroid because you'd bounce off - it has virtually no gravity.  Astronauts couldn't even walk on it because they'd float away.
But President Barack Obama has said the objective is to build new spaceships that can travel beyond the shuttle's near-Earth orbit and eventually send astronauts to asteroids, Mars and other destinations in deep space.
It would have to protect the space travellers from killer solar and cosmic ray bursts. And, they would need a crew capsule, maybe two, for travelling between the asteroid complex and Earth.
Critics, including former Apollo astronauts and flight directors, have blasted President Barack Obama for cancelling George W Bush's plan to return astronauts to the moon. They dismiss talk of asteroid visits.
The story begins with why Nasa would want to go to an asteroid. The agency has sent small spacecraft off to study asteroids over the years and even landed on one in 2001.
Logistically, Nasa wants to go to Mars, but that is distant and more difficult. So the argument is that going to an asteroid is a better testing ground than returning to the moon.
If Nasa can get astronauts to an asteroid, they can figure out a way of changing a potential killer's orbit. They'll experiment with the safe one they land on, Mr Braun said.
An anaglyph image of the south polar region of Vesta put together from two clear filter images taken on July 9 by the framing camera instrument aboard Dawn. Nasa officials have yet to decide which asteroid to land on
The crew capsule is the farthest along - with $5billion already spent - because Nasa is using the Orion crew ship it was already designing for the now dead moon mission and repurposing it for deep space.
If Nasa goes to ion propulsion, the best bet would be to start the bulk of the ship on a trip to and around the moon without astronauts. That would take a while, but if no one is on it, it doesn't matter, Mr Joosten said.
Orion isn't big enough for four astronauts to live on for a year. They would need a larger space habitat, a place where they can exercise to keep from losing bone strength in zero gravity.
Meanwhile Nasa is pursuing its concept for a mini-spaceship exploration vehicle, about the size of a minivan. And it's planning an underwater lab for training, an effort to mimic an asteroid mission's challenges.
